Our daily round-up of the latest news from clubs and players across the Premier League

Here is your daily briefing for the latest Premier League stories on Wednesday 22 April.

Welbeck’s Ronaldo tribute – and how he keeps getting better
Danny Welbeck paid homage to his former Manchester United team-mate Cristiano Ronaldo after equalling the Brighton & Hove Albion record for the most goals in a single Premier League season.

The 35-year-old striker came off the bench to score the Seagulls’ third goal in their 3-0 win over Chelsea on Tuesday night, marking his strike by copying Ronaldo’s iconic "Siu" celebration.
Welbeck made his Man Utd debut in Ronaldo’s last season of his first stint with Man Utd in 2008/09.

The England international has previously spoken of sitting next to Ronaldo in the dressing room and being inspired by his dedication in training.

Welbeck has now scored 13 top-flight goals this season, matching Glenn Murray’s club-record tally set in 2018/19.

It is also the most prolific season of his career, bettering his 10 league goals from 2024/25, and he is now the outright top English scorer in the division in 2025/26, moving one clear of Nottingham Forest's Morgan Gibbs-White.

Welbeck’s form has led to calls for him to be selected in England’s squad for this summer’s FIFA World Cup. The most recent of his 42 caps came in 2018.

“I think he should have a chance of going to the World Cup,” former Brighton midfielder Steve Sidwell told Sky Sports. “He’s in fine form and that’s what you want going into a tournament.”

Guardiola declares 'love' for Rice message
Pep Guardiola has expressed his admiration for Declan Rice following the Arsenal midfielder’s defiant message after last Sunday’s title showdown.

Rice was caught on camera declaring “it’s not done” to his captain Martin Odegaard, moments after the Gunners lost 2-1 to rivals Manchester City at the Etihad Stadium.

Asked about that viral clip, Man City boss Guardiola told Sky Sports: “I love that. That’s why Arsenal is there.

“It shows what Declan Rice is, what the Arsenal mentality is. We've faced it in the Premier League these past seasons and in the Carabao Cup, how competitive they are.

“Otherwise, they can't have done the season they have done, or the seasons they have done before [without having that mentality]."
He added: “If people think because we beat them, the title race is done, Declan Rice showed us that they are there.”

Man City are three points behind Premier League leaders Arsenal, but play their game in hand at Burnley on Wednesday night.
Arteta’s son rising up the ranks at Arsenal
Gabriel Arteta, the eldest son of Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta, has taken another step forward in his Gunners career after featuring for their Under-18s in a competitive match for the first time.

The 16-year-old winger came on as a substitute during the U18 Premier League South match at Reading on Wednesday.

Arteta junior's rise raises the prospect of him becoming the latest son to play under their father in the Premier League.

Alex Bruce played for his dad Steve Bruce at both Birmingham City and Hull City, Jamie Redknapp was Harry Redknapp’s first signing at Southampton, and Gavin Strachan featured for his father Gordon Strachan at Coventry City.

Nigel Clough was Nottingham Forest’s top scorer for Brian Clough when they were relegated in the inaugural Premier League campaign in 1992/93, while Darren Ferguson claimed a title winner’s medal under Sir Alex Ferguson at Man Utd in the same season.

In January this year, twin brothers Jack Fletcher and Tyler Fletcher were on the bench when their dad Darren Fletcher was in caretaker charge of Man Utd, but they did not get on, later making their respective debuts under Michael Carrick.

Other near misses include Maurizio Pochettino, who joined the Southampton academy when his father Mauricio Pochettino took charge, then followed him to Tottenham Hotspur, but did not play in the first team.

Tom Ince has played in the Premier League and been managed by his dad Paul Ince, but not at the same time.

Pogba praises Mainoo
Former Man Utd midfielder Paul Pogba has backed Kobbie Mainoo to have a “great career” at Old Trafford.

England international Mainoo has impressed for Man Utd since Carrick took charge, having struggled for game time under former head coach Ruben Amorim.

Speaking on Rio Ferdinand Presents, Pogba said of the 21-year-old: “He’s such a talented kid.

“It's really hard for me to say he should leave when he's so loved by the people at United. He's such a great player, [has] big potential and he can have a great career at Manchester United.

“I just wish him the best. I don't know what decision he's going to take. I just want to see this kid play because it's enjoyable to see him play.”

Pogba, who made 157 Premier League appearances for Man Utd over two spells, also praised captain Bruno Fernandes, who has provided 18 assists in the top flight this season – just two shy of Kevin De Bruyne and Thierry Henry’s single-season Premier League record.

“He can do everything,” added Pogba. “He's everywhere on the pitch.

“He has a volume. He keeps running. He's smart. He can play two touches, one touch. He can shoot. Football lovers will always respect Bruno Fernandes.”
Coventry confirmed as Championship title winners
Four days after sealing promotion to the Premier League, Coventry City secured the Championship title with an emphatic 5-1 home win over Portsmouth on Tuesday night.

“It was very apt for these boys to do it in that style at the CBS,” Sky Blues boss Frank Lampard, a Premier League Hall of Fame member, told BBC CWR.

“I was very determined for the players to do it in the right way. I thought it was fantastic and it was perfect as an evening.”
Coventry have now scored 90 goals in the Championship this season, amassing 89 points from 44 games.

When Lampard took charge of the club in November 2024, they were just two points clear of the relegation zone in 17th place.